# 1.1: Introduction to HTML & Basic Elements
Open up a [code editor](https://html-playground.herokuapp.com/) and type

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
	<body>
		<p>Hello world.</p>
	</body>
</html>
```

You have just created your first HTML file.

What is this madness???

To start off with, tags the things that are surrounded by `<` and `>`. There are 3 kinds of tags: doctype, start tag, end tag.  
The *doctype* is the `<!DOCTYPE html>` that will always go at the beginning of your file.  
A *start tag* does not include a `/`. (Example: `<body>`)  
An *end tag* starts with a `</`. (Example: `</body>`)  
An *element* consists of a start tag, an end tag, and everything in between. The start tag of a given element always comes before the end tag of that element. (Example: `<p>Hello world.</p>`)

We'll get into more detail about the `<html>` and `<body>` elements later. For now, just know that they are requierd for a valid HTML file.

#### New Elements
`<p>`: a paragraph

## Nesting
This is valid HTML:

```html
<p><b>bold and <i>italics</i></b></p>
```

while this is not:

```html
<p><b>bold and <i>italics</b></i><b>
```

<small>Note: *valid HTML* refers to a valid *section* of an HTML file while a *valid HTML file* refers to a valid complete file.</small>

Why? The reason for this is that is the `<i>` element inside of the `<b>` element, or outside of the `<b>` element. In the first example, the `<i>` is inside of `<b>`. In the second example, the `<i>` is both inside and outside of the `<b>`, which is not allowed.

**The rule for nesting is that end tags must occur in the opposite order of their corresponding start tags.**

## Whitespace
*Whitespace* refers to spaces, tabs, and newlines. In HTML, whitespace gets collapsed into one space. For instance, this:

```html
<p>A      lot        of      spaces.



And newlines.
Have no effect whatsoever.</p>
```

will be rendered as this:

A lot of spaces. And newlines. Have no effect whatsoever.

If you want to force text to go to the next line, put `<br>` element between the two lines.

#### New Elements
`<h1>` to `<h6>`: headings 1 to 6, in decreasing importance  
`<b>`: **bold** section of text  
`<i>`: *italic* section of text  
`<u>`, `<ins>`: <ins>underlined or inserted</ins> section of text  
`<s>`, `<del>`: ~~strikethrough or deleted~~ section of text  
`<code>`: short sections of `code`  
`<br>`: line
breaks

Example:
```html
<h1>Excerpt from <u>"Beasts of England"</u></h1>
<p>Beasts of England, Beasts of Ireland,<br>
Beasts of every land and clime,<br>
Hearken to my joyful tidings<br>
Of the Golden future time.</p>
```

## Attributes
Change your `<p>` attribute to look like this:

```html
<p align="center">Hello world!</p>
```

Your "Hello world!" should now be centered.

What happened was an *attribute* called `align` with a value of `center` was added. Attributes hold information about an element that the browser wouldn't otherwise know, for instance the alignment of a paragraph.

## Conclusion
We learned about elements, tags, and attributes.

For the mini-project, create an HTML file that contains information about yourself. Be sure to put your name as a heading.

Submit your HTML file in [this short form](https://forms.gle/umbC1SLTFFC44sYj8).
