# 1.2: Lists, Buttons, and Textfields
Last lesson, we learned some basic elements such as `<p>`,`<b>`,`<i>`,`<s>`,`<u>`,`<br>` and `<h1>`,`<h2>`, etc.

This lesson, we are going to learn some more HTML elements

But for now, let's recap last lesson

First open up a [code editor](https://html-playground.herokuapp.com/) and type

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <body>
    <h1>Hello, World!</h1>
    <h3>I can write in HTML</h3>
    <p>My name is [your name]</p>
  </body>
</html>
```
Now run your code and you should see a large heading, a smaller heading, and a mesage in paragraph texts.

Congratulations. You are ready to move on to lesson 1.2

## Lesson 1.2

#### New Elements
`<button>...</button>`: a button  
`<input type="text">`: a textfield (we'll go over the `type` attribute later)<br>
`<ol><li>...</li> ...</ol>`: an ordered list (list that uses numbers instead of bullets)<br>
`<ul><li>...</li> ...</ul>` : an unordered list (uses bullets instead of numbers)<br>
`<dl>`, `<dd>`, `<dt>`: definition lists

### Buttons (`<button> </button>`)

A button is a part of almost every website.

When a button is pressed, a specific function gets triggered. Usually, the function can be written in any programming languages including JavaScript (which we will eventually learn).

A button can include text or images

### Textfields (`<input type="text">`)

A textfield can be created by writing `<input type="text">`.

Notice how a textfield does not need a closing tag. The text that goes inside the textfield gets stored as a `value` instead of an inner HTML

If we want the textfield to have a placeholder, we must include the attribute `placeholder`

`<input type="text" placeholder="First name">` will set the placeholder to `First name`

### Ordered List (`<ol> </ol>`)

An ordered list will create a list, but with numbers instead of bullets

Type into your text editor:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <body>
    <ol>
      Coffee
      Bananas
      Apples
    </ol>
  </body>
</html>
```
Notice how a list did not get created with this code. Why did this happen?

In order to store values inside of a list, we must include the element `<li> </li>` inside of `<ol> </ol>`

Clear your text editor and now type this

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <body>
    <ol>
      <li>Coffee</li>
      <li>Bananas</li>
      <li>Apples</li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</html>
```
Run your code and the result should look like this:

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <body>
    <ol>
      <li>Coffee</li>
      <li>Bananas</li>
      <li>Apples</li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</html>

Congratulations, you have now created a grocery store list

## Unordered List (`<ul> </ul>`)

An unordered list is like an ordered list but uses bullets instead of numbers

Instead of using `<ol> </ol>`, you now use `<ul> </ul>`

Clear your text editor and type this: 

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <body>
    <ul>
      <li>Coffee</li>
      <li>Bananas</li>
      <li>Apples</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</html>
```
Run your code and the result should look like this:

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <body>
    <ul>
      <li>Coffee</li>
      <li>Bananas</li>
      <li>Apples</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</html>

Congratulations, you now know how to make a bulleted list

## Definition Lists (`<dl></dl>`)
Definition lists are like a dictionary: they associate terms with definitions.

The `<dl>` element represents a dictionary list. Inside the `<dl>` element are `<dt>` and `<dd>` elements. `<dt>` represents a term (like a word in a dictionary), while `<dd>` represents a definition.

```html
<dl>
  <dt>Lemon</dt>
  <dd>A sour, yellow fruit.</dd>
  <dt>Lime</dt>
  <dd>Green lemon ripoff.</dd>
</dl>
```

Result:

<dl>
  <dt>Lemon</dt>
  <dd>A sour, yellow fruit.</dd>
  <dt>Lime</dt>
  <dd>Green lemon ripoff.</dd>
</dl>


## Practice

Let's practice what you have just learned so far

It's okay to scroll up or look back into the first lesson for help 

First, I want you to clear your text editor.

Now, write your HTML file in the proper way so that the program is ready to accept HTML elements

This must include:

`<!DOCTYPE html>`  
`<html></html>`  
`<body></body>`  

Next, create a heading 1 element called `Grocery Store List`

Create an unordered list element that contains 5 bullets. Right next to those 5 bullets, add your favorite foods into the list.

Choose 2 of your favorite foods and define them in a definition list right under the unordered list.

Underneath the unordered list, create a textfield that has a placeholder called `New food`

Add a line break element right after textfield

Underneath the textfield, add a button called `Add to the list`

You're done.

Scroll down to view the answer

<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>

Your code should look something like:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <body>
    <h1>Grocery Store List</h1>
    <ul>
      <li>Lucky Charms</li>
      <li>Ice Cream</li>
      <li>Oreos</li>
      <li>Bananas</li>
      <li>Bagels</li>
    </ul>
    <dl>
      <dt>Lucky Charms</dt>
      <dd>Diabetes-inducing cereal</dd>
      <dt>Bagels</dt>
      <dd>Torus-shaped bread.</dd>
    </dl>
    <input type="text" placeholder="New food">
    <button>Add to this list</button>
  </body>
</html>
```
The button should not perform anything when pressed.

Don't worry, we will learn how to program a button later

Congratulations, you have successfully completed Lesson 1.2
